# Kiezburn Calendar Parser

Convert raw text from the PDF generated by the [dust](https://dust.events/dust) app, into `.ics` file you can import into your calendar app.

The only requirement is that you have Python installed on your computer.

## Steps

In short the steps are:

1. Download this repository or just the `main.py` file.
2. **Prepare the input**: Open the `input.txt` and paste the text you copied from the PDF, then fix formatting.
3. **Run the parser**: `main.py`
4. **Import to calendar**: Use the generated `kiezburn_events.ics` file

That's it. Hopefully it works for you.

Here are more detailed instructions:

## 1. Downloading everything

If you already know how to use github etc. just download this repository.

For people who don't have experience with github, it's probably easiest to just download the `main.py` file. To do that, click on the file and then the download button in the top right corner.

## 2. The input


Either open the `input.txt` file or create one if you didn't download the whole repository. It's important to create it in the same place the `main.py` file is located. Now paste the text you copied from the PDF into the file.
(I copied the text using the edge pdf viewer, it could be that other PDF viewers copy the text differently, but hopefully they still work.)

Your `input.txt` should follow this format:

```
Events
 Tuesday 29th
 1pm
 Kiez name
 Event name
 7pm
 Kiez name
 Event name
 Wednesday 30th
 10am
 Kiez name
 Event name
...
```

It should say `Events` at the top.

Then a date like "Tuesday 29th", "Wednesday 30th", etc.

Then always 3 lines consisting of
1. time of the event
2. organizing Kiez
3. event name


It's not a problem if emojies are in the text, but they might have broken the formatting, so check the file and make sure that it's always has this formatting.

Some events that don't have a organizing Kiez listed might break the formatting. In that case just add `xxx` or so, to that line. Just make sure that each event always fills up 3 lines.


Your file should look something like this.

```
Events
 Tuesday 29th
 5pm
 The one Stage
 Fun Shimmying
 7pm
 Magical Realm
 Trivia quiz
 8:30pm
 The only Haus
 Lip Sync Show
 Wednesday 30th
 12pm
 xxx
 Human Curling
 5am
 Harlem Haus
 Harlem Opening Ceremony
```


Then you can close and save the file.

## 3. Run the parser

You need to run `python main.py` in the command line or terminal, while being located in the folder where the `main.py` file is located or, using a program like VSCode, you can click the play button in the top right corner that runs the file.

If you have never done something like this before, here are some instructions:
- Find where the `main.py` was downloaded to. Right-click on the file and select "Copy path" or "Copy as path".
- Press the windows key and search `terminal` open that program.
- type `cd ` and then paste the text you copied before. Now you shoul see something like this:
- `cd "C:\Users\your-pc-name\Downloads\main.py"`
- remove the `main.py` at the end, so you get something like: `cd "C:\Users\your-pc-name\Downloads\"`
- Now press enter. Now write `py main.py` and press enter again.
- Now you should see some outputs and ideally a `.ics` file appeared.


If everything worked the outputs should look something like this:

```
🎪 Kiezburn Calendar Parser
========================================
📊 SUMMARY
========================================
✓ Processed 7 dates
✓ Total events: 23
...
```

## 4. Import to calendar

Now two new files should have appeared in the folder:

The `events.json` file you can just ignore. You should download the `kiezburn_events.ics` file, then you can import it into your calendar app.


*I hope this works for you*
